# Matplotlib Pharmaceutical Analysis

## Overview
In this project, we will analyze data from a new pharmaceutical company's most recent animal study. The purpose of this study was to compare the performance of the company's drug of interest, Capomulin, versus the other treatment regimens. Over the course of this analysis, we will do the following:

* Generate summary statistics
* Create bar charts displaying the number of timepoints of all mice tested for each drug regimen throughout the course of the study.
* Create pie charts displaying the distribution of male and female mice
* Calculate quartiles, find outliers, and create box plots displaying the final tumor volume of each mouse across four of the most promising treatment regimens: Capomulin, Ramicane, Infubinol, and Ceftamin
* Create a line plot displaying tumor volume vs. timepoint for one of the mice that was treated with Capomulin
* Create a scatter plot showing tumor volume vs. mouse weight for the Capomulin treatment regimen
* Calculate the correlation coefficient and linear regression model between mouse weight and average tumor volume for the Capomulin treatment
* Plot the linear regression model over the previous scatter plot

## Analysis
* From our regression analysis towards the end of the document, there is a strong positive correlation between tumor volume and mouse weights. That is, the more a mouse weighs, the higher the average tumor volume. This is evident from the regression model as well as the correlation coefficient of 0.84.
* Our data contains a nearly equal number of male and female mice. This helps to eliminate potential bias involving gender. For example, a study of nearly all male mice likely won't be representative of the entire population.
* Our analysis suggest that Capomulin is quite successful. We can see from the line plot for mouse l509, tumor volume decreases as the mouse progresses through the treatment.
* The drug of interest, Capomulin, is among the most effective. Ramicane produces slightly better results with a mean tumor volume of about 0.46 mm$^3$ less than that of Capomulin. Both drugs, however, are significantly more effective than their competitors, producing mean tumor volumes that are almost 25% smaller than the other treatments. 

## References
* Module 5 Challenge Instructions
* Data generated by Mockaroo, LLC. (2021) Realistic Data Generator. https://www.mockaroo.com/. Modified by Trilogy Education Services, LLC
